---
layout: post
title:  "6.824"
date: 2021-09-30 19:10:10 +0800
categories: [Distributed System]
tags: [Distributed System,Raft]
---

# Introduction.
My name is BenchengSu(Michial), I am currently a graduate student in university of cincinnati, major in Computer Engineering. For the prjects I've done, the first project is about implementation a distributed system based on raft distributed consenous algorithm. it supports fault-tolerance and recoverability. the second project is implementing a simple OS kernel. In that kernel. there is a mmu which maps virtual address to physical address and there is a memory allcator which manages the allocation of the physical memory. I just use a linked list to link all the free pages. it also supports page-fault handling, system call, interrupt handling. then I implemented a fork() function with copy-on-write scenario. the third project is about a compiler, which translate a c++ file to machine code and then it could be running on the machine. I also implemented a web crawler based on the scrapy module. 

# Distributed system.
S: last year, I heard the word "distributed system", I was kind of curious, because I heard of operating system, linux, memory management system. but I had never heard of distributed system, so I googled it, and found a course which is relative to it.
T: know some basic concepts about it and do some implementations.
A: the course is released by MIT. it's really easy to find the schedule online, I followed the schedule strictly and read some of the paper, like zookeeper and chain replication and some other things.
R: I thought distributed system is really intersting and I want to do something about it.

## Introduction about the project.
this project is actually a key/value distributed storage system. it is scalable, consistent, fault-tolerant and recoverable. It's also load balanced. 
Let's start with the scalability.
#### scalability.

